.\" A man page for ipa-smartproxy.conf
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-smartproxy.conf" "5" "Jan 8 2014" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-smartproxy.conf \- IPA Smartproxy server configuration file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
/etc/ipa/ipa\-smartproxy.conf
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fIipa\-smartproxy.conf \fRconfiguration file is used to set system\-wide defaults to be applied when running the IPA Foreman Smartproxy server.
.SH "SYNTAX"
The configuration options are not case sensitive. The values may be case sensitive, depending on the option.

Blank lines are ignored.

Lines beginning with # are comments and are ignored.

Valid lines consist of an option name, an equals sign and a value. Spaces surrounding equals sign are ignored. An option terminates at the end of a line.

The value is a Python object so needs to adhere to Python rules. If the value should be an integer then it needs to be passed as an integer (like port). If the value is a string then it must be quoted.

Options must appear in the section named [global]. There are no other sections defined or used currently.

Options may be defined that are not used by the IPA Foreman Smartproxy server. Be careful of misspellings, they will not be rejected.
.SH "OPTIONS"
The server runs using the CherryPy so all the CherryPy configuration options are valid. Here are some common ones.

.TP
.B server.socket_port\fR <port>
Port for the server to listen on. The default port is 8090.
.TP
.B server.socket_host\fR <host>
If not specified then the server will listen on localhost. This is the expected mode. Specifiy a hostname or IP address to listen on another address. See also the .B local_only\fR option if setting this to something other than a local address.
.B request.show_tracebacks\fR <boolean>
Display tracebacks to the client when errors occur. Errors will always log on the server side. The default is False.
.TP
.B local_only\fR <boolean>
If True then requires that all requests be local. It is not recommended that this be enabled because this server accepts unathenticated requests to manage IPA entries.
.TP
.B remove_dns\fR <boolean>
Remove DNS entries when deleting a host
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /etc/ipa/ipa\-smartproxy.conf
IPA Foreman Smartproxy server configuration file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipa\-smartproxy (1)
