.\" A man page for ipa-upgradeconfig
.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" 
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\" 
.TH "ipa-upgradeconfig" "8" "Jun 18 2012" "freeipa" ""
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-upgradeconfig \- Upgrade the IPA Apache configuration
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-upgradeconfig
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A tool to update the IPA Apache configuration during an upgrade.

It examines the VERSION value in the head of \fI/etc/httpd/conf.d/ipa.conf\fR and \fI/etc/httpd/conf.d/ipa\-rewrite.conf\fR and compares this with the templates. If an update is needed then new files are written.

It also will convert a CA configured to be accessible via ports 9443, 9444, 9445 and 9446 to be proxied by the IPA web server on ports 80 and 443.

This is not intended to be run by an end\-user. It is executed when the IPA rpms are upgraded. This must be run as the root user.
.SH "OPTIONS"
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug logging when more verbose output is needed
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the update was successful or there was nothing to do

1 if an error occurred
