.\" A man page for ipa-compat-manage
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Simo Sorce <ssorce@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-compat-manage" "1" "Dec 2 2008" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-compat\-manage \- Enables or disables the schema compatibility plugin
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-compat\-manage [options] <enable|disable|status>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Run the command with the \fBenable\fR option to enable the compat plugin.

Run the command with the \fBdisable\fR option to disable the compat plugin.

Run the command with the \fBstatus\fR to determine the current status of the compat plugin.

In all cases the user will be prompted to provide the Directory Manager's password unless option \fB\-y\fR is used.

Directory Server will need to be restarted after the schema compatibility plugin has been enabled.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug logging when more verbose output is needed
.TP
\fB\-y\fR \fIfile\fR
File containing the Directory Manager password
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred

2 if the plugin is already in the required status (enabled or disabled)
