.\" A man page for ipa-host-net-manage
.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 only
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Jr Aquino <jr.aquino@citrix.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-host-net-manage" "1" "Dec 2 2010" "freeipa" ""
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-host\-net\-manage \- Enables or disables the schema Managed Entry Hostgroup -to- Netgroup plugin
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-host\-net\-manage [options] <enable|disable|status>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Run the command with the \fBenable\fR option to enable the Managed Entry Hostgroup -to- Netgroup plugin.

Run the command with the \fBdisable\fR option to disable the Managed Entry Hostgroup -to- Netgroup plugin.

Run the command with the \fBstatus\fR to determine the current status of the Managed Entry Hostgroup -to- Netgroup plugin.

In all cases the user will be prompted to provide the Directory Manager's password unless option \fB\-y\fR is used.

Directory Server will need to be restarted after the schema compatibility plugin has been enabled.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug logging when more verbose output is needed
.TP
\fB\-y\fR \fIfile\fR
File containing the Directory Manager password
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred

2 if the plugin is already in the required status (enabled or disabled)
