.\" A man page for ipa-fixreplica
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-fixreplica" "1" "Jan 6 2012" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-fixreplica \- Add memberOf as excluded attribute to replication agreements
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-fixreplica [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The memberOf attribute was not properly added to some replication agreements
causing unnecessary replication. This tool will update all replication
agreements for the current host and add memberOf to the exclusion list.

When executed as root no password is required, otherwise it will prompt
for the Directory Manager password.

This is executed when the package is updated in rpm so should not need
to be run by an end-user. It is not harmful to run multiple times.

This needs to be run on all replicas to be truly effective.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug logging when more verbose output is needed
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-test\fR
Run in test mode, no changes are applied
.TP
\fB\-y\fR \fIfile\fR
File containing the Directory Manager password
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful or IPA is not configured

1 if an error occurred

2 If during test mode it determines that there are agreements that need updating
