.\" A man page for ipa-otptoken-import
.\" Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Nathaniel McCallum <npmccallum@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-otptoken-import" "1" "Aug 11 2018" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-otptoken\-import \- Imports OTP tokens from RFC 6030 XML file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-otptoken\-import [options] <infile> <outfile>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Running the command will attempt to import all tokens specified in \fBinfile\fR. If the command is unable to import a token, the reason for the failure will be printed to standard error and all failed tokens will be written to the \fBoutfile\fR for further inspection.

If the \fBinfile\fR contains encrypted token data, then the \fIkeyfile\fR (\fB-k\fR) option MUST be specified. 

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-k\fR \fIkeyfile\fR
File containing the key used to decrypt the token data.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Treat \fBinfile\fR as a comma-separated values file instead of an RFC 6030 XML file. Following structure and order of CSV fields is expected:

\fBtoken ID\fR, \fBkey\fR, \fBtoken type\fR, \fBnumber of digits in the token\fR, \fBinterval (in seconds) of a token value change\fR

An example token line:

GALT10280115,0fdb21c04108a1df1e8eeaad610c5048ee9e8f62,totp,6,30

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred
