.\" A man page for ipa-advise
.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Tomas Babej <tbabej@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-winsync-migrate" "1" "Mar 10 2015" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-winsync\-migrate \- Seamless migration of AD users created by winsync to native AD users.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-winsync\-migrate
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Migrates AD users created by winsync agreement to ID overrides in
the Default Trust View, thus preserving the actual POSIX attributes
already established.

Prior to the actual migration, the winsync replication agreement
will be removed to protect the removal of the user accounts
on the Active Directory side.

During the migration, group, assigned roles, HBAC rules and SELinux
memberships of the synced users will be preserved. Any local copies
(created by winsync) of the migrated users will be removed.

.SH "WARNINGS"
After the migration, any PassSync agreements need to be removed
from Active Directory Domain Controllers, otherwise they might
attempt to update passwords for accounts that no longer exist
on the IPA server.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-realm\fR
The Active Directory realm the winsynced users belong to.
.TP
\fB\-\-server\fR
The hostname of Active Directory Domain Controller the winsync replication agreement is established with.
.TP
\fB\-\-unattended\fR
Never prompts for user input.
