.\" A man page for ipa-managed-entries
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Jr Aquino <jr.aquino@citrix.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-managed-entries" "1" "Feb 06 2012" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-managed\-entries \- Enables or disables the schema Managed Entry plugins
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-managed\-entries [options] <enable|disable|status>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Run the command with the \fBenable\fR option to enable the Managed Entry plugin.

Run the command with the \fBdisable\fR option to disable the Managed Entry plugin.

Run the command with the \fBstatus\fR to determine the current status of the Managed Entry plugin.

In all cases the user will be prompted to provide the Directory Manager's password unless option \fB\-p\fR is used.

Directory Server will need to be restarted after the Managed Entry plugin has been enabled.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show a help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug logging when more verbose output is needed
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-entry\fR
DN for the Managed Entry Definition
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB-\-list\fR
List available Managed Entries
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIDM_PASSWORD\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fIDM_PASSWORD\fR
The Directory Manager password to use for authentication
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred

2 if the plugin is already in the required status (enabled or disabled)
