.\" A man page for ipa-csreplica-manage
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-csreplica-manage" "1" "Jul 14 2011" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-csreplica\-manage \- Manage an IPA CS replica
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-csreplica\-manage [\fIOPTION\fR]...  [connect|disconnect|del|list|re\-initialize|force\-sync]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Manages the CA replication agreements of an IPA server for domain at domain level 0.

To manage CA replication agreements in a domain at domain level 1, use IPA CLI or Web UI, see `ipa help topology` for additional information.

.TP
\fBconnect\fR [SERVER_A] <SERVER_B>
\- Adds a new replication agreement between SERVER_A/localhost and SERVER_B. Applicable only at domain level 0.
.TP
\fBdisconnect\fR [SERVER_A] <SERVER_B>
\- Removes a replication agreement between SERVER_A/localhost and SERVER_B. Applicable only at domain level 0.
.TP
\fBdel\fR <SERVER>
\- Removes all replication agreements and data about SERVER. Applicable only at domain level 0.

.TP
\fBlist\fR [SERVER]
\- Lists all the servers or the list of agreements of SERVER
.TP
\fBre\-initialize\fR
\- Forces a full re\-initialization of the IPA CA server retrieving data from the server specified with the \-\-from option
.TP
\fBforce\-sync\fR
\- Immediately flush any data to be replicated from a server specified with the \-\-from option
.TP
\fBset\-renewal\-master\fR [SERVER]
\- Set CA server which handles renewal of CA subsystem certificates to SERVER
.TP
The connect and disconnect options are used to manage the replication topology. When a replica is created it is only connected with the master that created it. The connect option may be used to connect it to other existing replicas.
.TP
The disconnect option cannot be used to remove the last link of a replica. To remove a replica from the topology use the del option.
.TP
If a replica is deleted and then re\-added within a short time-frame then the 389\-ds instance on the master that created it should be restarted before re\-installing the replica. The master will have the old service principals cached which will cause replication to fail.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fIHOST\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR=\fIHOST\fR
The IPA server to manage.
The default is the machine on which the command is run
Not honoured by the re\-initialize command.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIDM_PASSWORD\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fIDM_PASSWORD\fR
The Directory Manager password to use for authentication
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Provide additional information
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Ignore some types of errors
.TP
\fB\-\-from\fR=\fISERVER\fR
The server to pull the data from, used by the re\-initialize and force\-sync commands.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
List a server's replication agreements.
 # ipa\-csreplica\-manage list srv1.example.com
 srv2.example.com
 srv3.example.com
.TP
Re\-initialize a replica:
 # ipa\-csreplica\-manage re\-initialize \-\-from srv2.example.com

This will re\-initialize the data on the server where you execute the command, retrieving the data from the srv2.example.com replica
.TP
Add a new replication agreement:
 # ipa\-csreplica\-manage connect srv2.example.com srv4.example.com
.TP
Remove an existing replication agreement:
 # ipa\-csreplica\-manage disconnect srv1.example.com srv3.example.com
.TP
Completely remove a replica at domain level 0:
 # ipa\-csreplica\-manage del srv4.example.com
.TP
Completely remove a replica at domain level 1:
 # ipa\-replica\-manage del srv4.example.com
.TP
Using connect/disconnect you can manage the replication topology.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful
.TP
1 if an error occurred
