.\" A man page for ipa-kra-install
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Ade Lee <alee@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-kra-install" "1" "Aug 24 2014" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-kra\-install \- Install a KRA on a server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-kra\-install [\fIOPTION\fR]... [replica_file]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Adds a KRA as an IPA\-managed service. This requires that the IPA server is already installed and configured, including a CA.

The KRA (Key Recovery Authority) is a component used to securely store secrets such as passwords, symmetric keys and private asymmetric keys.  It is used as the back-end repository for the IPA Password Vault.

ipa\-kra\-install can be run without replica_file to add KRA to the existing CA.
ipa\-kra\-install will contact the CA to determine if a KRA has already been installed on another replica, and if so, will exit indicating that a replica_file is required.

The replica_file is created using the ipa\-replica\-prepare utility.  A new replica_file should be generated on the master IPA server after the KRA has been installed and configured, so that the replica_file will contain the master KRA configuration and system certificates.

KRA can only be removed along with the entire server using ipa\-server\-install \-\-uninstall.
.SH "OPTIONS"
\fB\-p\fR \fIDM_PASSWORD\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fIDM_PASSWORD\fR
Directory Manager (existing master) password
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-unattended\fR
An unattended installation that will never prompt for user input
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable debug output when more verbose output is needed
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Output only errors
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-log-file\fR=\fFILE\fR
Log to the given file
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred
