.\" A man page for ipa-adtrust-install
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Sumit Bose <sbose@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-adtrust-install" "1" "April 11 2017" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-adtrust\-install \- Prepare an IPA server to be able to establish trust relationships with AD domains
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-adtrust\-install [\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Adds all necessary objects and configuration to allow an IPA server to create a
trust to an Active Directory domain. This requires that the IPA server is
already installed and configured.

Please note you will not be able to establish an trust to an Active Directory
domain unless the realm name of the IPA server matches its domain name.

ipa\-adtrust\-install can be run multiple times to reinstall deleted objects or
broken configuration files. E.g. a fresh samba configuration (smb.conf) file and
registry based configuration can be created. Other items like e.g. the
configuration of the local range cannot be changed by running
ipa\-adtrust\-install a second time because with changes here other objects
might be affected as well.

.SS "Firewall Requirements"
In addition to the IPA server firewall requirements, ipa\-adtrust\-install requires
the following ports to be open to allow IPA and Active Directory to communicate together:

\fBTCP Ports\fR
.IP
\(bu 135/tcp EPMAP
.IP
\(bu 138/tcp NetBIOS-DGM
.IP
\(bu 139/tcp NetBIOS-SSN
.IP
\(bu 445/tcp Microsoft-DS
.IP
\(bu 1024/tcp through 1300/tcp to allow EPMAP on port 135/tcp to create a TCP listener based
on an incoming request.
.IP
\(bu 3268/tcp Microsoft-GC
.TP
\fBUDP Ports\fR
.IP
\(bu 138/udp NetBIOS-DGM
.IP
\(bu 139/udp NetBIOS-SSN
.IP
\(bu 389/udp LDAP

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug logging when more verbose output is needed.
.TP
\fB\-\-netbios\-name\fR=\fINETBIOS_NAME\fR
The NetBIOS name for the IPA domain. If not provided then this is determined
based on the leading component of the DNS domain name. Running
ipa\-adtrust\-install for a second time with a different NetBIOS name will
change the name. Please note that changing the NetBIOS name might break
existing trust relationships to other domains.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-sids\fR
Add SIDs to existing users and groups as one of the final steps of the
ipa\-adtrust\-install run. If there a many existing users and groups and a
couple of replicas in the environment this operation might lead to a high
replication traffic and a performance degradation of all IPA servers in the
environment. To avoid this the SID generation can be run after
ipa\-adtrust\-install is run and scheduled independently. To start this task
you have to load an edited version of ipa-sidgen-task-run.ldif with the
ldapmodify command info the directory server.
.TP
\fB\-\-add\-agents\fR
Add IPA masters to the list that allows to serve information about
users from trusted forests. Starting with FreeIPA 4.2, a regular IPA master
can provide this information to SSSD clients. IPA masters aren't added
to the list automatically as restart of the LDAP service on each of them
is required. The host where ipa\-adtrust\-install is being run is added
automatically.
.IP
Note that IPA masters where ipa\-adtrust\-install wasn't run, can serve
information about users from trusted forests only if they are enabled
via \ipa-adtrust\-install run on any other IPA master. At least SSSD
version 1.13 on IPA master is required to be able to perform as a trust agent.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-unattended\fR
An unattended installation that will never prompt for user input.
.TP
\fB\-\-rid-base\fR=\fIRID_BASE\fR
First RID value of the local domain. The first Posix ID of the local domain will
be assigned to this RID, the second to RID+1 etc. See the online help of the
idrange CLI for details.
.TP
\fB\-\-secondary-rid-base\fR=\fISECONDARY_RID_BASE\fR
Start value of the secondary RID range, which is only used in the case a user
and a group share numerically the same Posix ID. See the online help of the
idrange CLI for details.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-admin\-name\fR=\fIADMIN_NAME\fR
The name of the user with administrative privileges for this IPA server. Defaults to 'admin'.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-admin\-password\fR=\fIpassword\fR
The password of the user with administrative privileges for this IPA server. Will be asked interactively if \fB\-U\fR is not specified.
.TP
The credentials of the admin user will be used to obtain Kerberos ticket before configuring cross-realm trusts support and afterwards, to ensure that the ticket contains MS-PAC information required to actually add a trust with Active Directory domain via 'ipa trust\-add \-\-type=ad' command.
.TP
\fB\-\-enable\-compat\fR
Enables support for trusted domains users for old clients through Schema Compatibility plugin.
SSSD supports trusted domains natively starting with version 1.9. For platforms that
lack SSSD or run older SSSD version one needs to use this option. When enabled, slapi\-nis package
needs to be installed and schema\-compat\-plugin will be configured to provide lookup of
users and groups from trusted domains via SSSD on IPA server. These users and groups will be
available under \fBcn=users,cn=compat,$SUFFIX\fR and \fBcn=groups,cn=compat,$SUFFIX\fR trees.
SSSD will normalize names of users and groups to lower case.
.IP
In addition to providing these users and groups through the compat tree, this option enables
authentication over LDAP for trusted domain users with DN under compat tree, i.e. using bind DN
\fBuid=administrator@ad.domain,cn=users,cn=compat,$SUFFIX\fR.
.IP
LDAP authentication performed by the compat tree is done via PAM '\fBsystem\-auth\fR' service.
This service exists by default on Linux systems and is provided by pam package as /etc/pam.d/system\-auth.
If your IPA install does not have default HBAC rule 'allow_all' enabled, then make sure
to define in IPA special service called '\fBsystem\-auth\fR' and create an HBAC
rule to allow access to anyone to this rule on IPA masters.
.IP
As '\fBsystem\-auth\fR' PAM service is not used directly by any other
application, it is safe to use it for trusted domain users via compatibility
path.
.TP
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the installation was successful

1 if an error occurred
