.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2019  FreeIPA Contributors see COPYING for license
.\"
.TH "ipa-cert-fix" "1" "Apr 06 2026" "IPA" "IPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-cert\-fix \- Renew expired certificates
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-cert\-fix [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

\fIipa-cert-fix\fR is a tool for recovery when expired certificates
prevent the normal operation of IPA.  It should ONLY be used in
such scenarios, and backup of the system, especially certificates
and keys, is \fBSTRONGLY RECOMMENDED\fR.

Do not use this program unless expired certificates are inhibiting
normal operation and renewal procedures.

To renew the IPA CA certificate, use \fIipa-cacert-manage(1)\fR.

\fIipa-cert-fix\fR automatically detects the deployment type of the
local server and chooses the appropriate recovery path.  It handles
CA\-full servers (both renewal masters and non\-renewal\-master
replicas), CA\-less replicas, and servers with a mix of internally
and externally signed certificates.

On a CA renewal master, \fIipa-cert-fix\fR uses \fBpki-server cert-fix\fR
to regenerate expired Dogtag and IPA service certificates.  If any
"shared" certificates are renewed (all Dogtag system certificates except
the HTTPS certificate, and the IPA RA certificate), the server is set
as the renewal master and the new certificates are added to LDAP for
replication.

On a non\-renewal\-master CA replica, \fIipa-cert-fix\fR fetches the CA
chain, RA and shared certificates from a working master server,
then uses certmonger to renew expired certificates through the
master's CA.  This is a non\-destructive approach that does not
change the renewal master assignment.

On a CA\-less replica, \fIipa-cert-fix\fR fetches the CA chain and RA
certificate from a CA server in the topology, then renews HTTP, LDAP
and KDC certificates through that server via certmonger.

Certificates signed by an external CA cannot be automatically renewed.
When externally\-signed certificates are detected, \fIipa-cert-fix\fR
offers to transition them to the internal IPA CA (if available) or
generates CSR files in \fB/run/ipa/cert\-fix/\fR and prints instructions for manual
renewal using \fIipa-server-certinstall(1)\fR.

The CA signing certificate must have at least one month of remaining
validity for the renewal master fix path to proceed.  If it is
expired or near expiry and the CA is self\-signed, the user is
directed to \fIipa-cacert-manage(1)\fR.  If the CA is externally
signed, \fIipa-cert-fix\fR automatically extracts the existing CSR
from certmonger and writes it to \fB/var/lib/ipa/ca.csr\fR, then
prints instructions for submitting it to the external CA and
installing the renewed certificate with
\fIipa-cacert-manage renew \-\-external\-cert\-file\fR.

Important note: the \fIcertmonger\fR daemon does not immediately notice
the updated certificates and may trigger a renewal after \fIipa-cert-fix\fR
completes.  As a consequence, \fIgetcert list\fR output may display
that a renewal is in progress even if \fIipa-cert-fix\fR just
finished.  It is recommended to monitor the certmonger\-initiated
renewal and wait for its completion before any other administrative task.

.SH "SCENARIOS"
.TP
\fBRenewal master\fR
Detected automatically when the server holds the renewal master role,
or forced with \fB\-\-renewal\-master\fR.  Runs \fBpki-server cert-fix\fR
to renew Dogtag certificates and installs renewed IPA service
certificates.  The server becomes (or remains) the renewal master.
.TP
\fBCA\-full replica with working master\fR
Detected when the server has a local CA but is not the renewal master.
Fetches certificates from a master server and renews via certmonger.
Does not change the renewal master assignment.
.TP
\fBCA\-full replica, promote to renewal master\fR
Selected when no working master is available.  The user is asked to
confirm promotion.  After promotion, the renewal master fix path is
used.  CRL generation must be enabled manually with
\fIipa-crlgen-manage(1)\fR afterward.
.TP
\fBCA\-less replica\fR
Detected when no CA is installed locally but CA servers exist in the
topology.  Fetches the CA chain and RA certificate, then renews
HTTP, LDAP, and KDC certificates via certmonger.
.TP
\fBExternal certificates\fR
Detected when certificates are signed by an external CA.  Offers
per\-certificate transition to the internal IPA CA or generates CSR
files for manual renewal.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-force\-server\fR=\fIFQDN\fR
Use the specified server to fetch certificates from, instead of
auto\-discovering a master from the topology.  Cannot specify the
current server.
.TP
\fB\-\-renewal\-master\fR
Force this server to become the renewal master and use the renewal
master fix path.  Use with caution.  Verify CRL generation and IPA
configuration after the topology is stable.  Cannot be combined
with \fB\-\-force\-server\fR.  Not valid on CA\-less replicas.
.TP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Print the intended actions without executing them.  Useful for
reviewing what \fIipa-cert-fix\fR would do before committing.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-unattended\fR
Non\-interactive mode.  Never prompt the user for input.  Uses
auto\-discovered defaults where possible.  If no working master
can be found in unattended mode, falls back to the renewal master
approach.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show the program's version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show the help for this program.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print debugging information.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Output only errors (output from child processes may still be shown).
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-file\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Log to the given file.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred

2 if IPA is not configured

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
Dry\-run to see what would happen:
.B ipa\-cert\-fix \-\-dry\-run
.TP
Fix a CA replica using a specific master:
.B ipa\-cert\-fix \-\-force\-server=master.example.com
.TP
Unattended fix (e.g., in a script):
.B ipa\-cert\-fix \-U
.TP
Force promotion to renewal master:
.B ipa\-cert\-fix \-\-renewal\-master

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipa-cacert-manage (1),
.BR ipa-server-certinstall (1),
.BR ipa-crlgen-manage (1),
.BR getcert-resubmit (1)
