.\" A man page for ipa-compliance
.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 only
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-compliance" "1" "Dec 14 2010" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-compliance \- Check entitlement compliance
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-compliance [\fIOPTION\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Verify that the IPA installation is in compliance with the number of client entitlements it has.

Entitlements are managed using the ipa entitle command.

An enrolled host is an machine that has a host keytab in the IPA system.

The entitlements take the form of x509v3 certificates. The certificates are examined and the quantities summed. This is compared to the number of enrolled hosts to determine compliance.

The command logs to syslog and if run from a tty will log to the terminal as well.

The IPA server provides 25 entitlements of its own.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debugging output in the command
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred
.SH "NOTES"
Entitlements are not checked if the python\-rhsm package is not installed.
