.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2019  FreeIPA Contributors see COPYING for license
.\"
.TH "ipa-crlgen-manage" "1" "Feb 12 2019" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-crlgen\-manage \- Enables or disables CRL generation
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-crlgen\-manage [options] <enable|disable|status>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Run the command with the \fBenable\fR option to enable CRL generation on the
local host. This requires that the IPA server is already installed and
configured, including a CA. The command will restart Dogtag and Apache.

Run the command with the \fBdisable\fR option to disable CRL generation on the
local host. The command will restart Dogtag and Apache.

Run the command with the \fBstatus\fR option to determine the current status
of CRL generation. If the local host is configured for CRL generation, the
command also prints the last CRL generation date and number.

Important: the administrator must ensure that there is only one IPA server
generating CRLs. In order to transfer the CRL generation from one server to
another, please run \fBipa-crlgen-manage disable\fR on the current CRL
generation master, followed by \fBipa-crlgen-manage enable\fR on the new
CRL generation master.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show the program's version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show the help for this program.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print debugging information.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Output only errors.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-file\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Log to the given file.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred

2 if the local host is not an IPA server
