.\" A man page for ipa-ca-install
.\" Copyright (C) 2011-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-ca-install" "1" "Mar 30 2017" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-ca\-install \- Install a CA on a server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.TP
ipa\-ca\-install [\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Adds a CA as an IPA\-managed service. This requires that the IPA server is already installed and configured.

ipa\-ca\-install can be used to upgrade from CA-less to CA-full or to install the CA service on a replica.

Domain level 0 is not supported anymore.

.SH "OPTIONS"
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug logging when more verbose output is needed
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIDM_PASSWORD\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fIDM_PASSWORD\fR
Directory Manager (existing master) password
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIADMIN_PASSWORD\fR, \fB\-\-admin\-password\fR=\fIADMIN_PASSWORD\fR
Admin user Kerberos password used for connection check
.TP
\fB\-\-external\-ca\fR
Generate a CSR for the IPA CA certificate to be signed by an external CA.
.TP
\fB\-\-external\-ca\-type\fR=\fITYPE\fR
Type of the external CA. Possible values are "generic", "ms-cs". Default value is "generic". Use "ms-cs" to include the template name required by Microsoft Certificate Services (MS CS) in the generated CSR (see \fB\-\-external\-ca\-profile\fR for full details).

.TP
\fB\-\-external\-ca\-profile\fR=\fIPROFILE_SPEC\fR
Specify the certificate profile or template to use at the external CA.

When \fB\-\-external\-ca\-type\fR is "ms-cs" the following specifiers may be used:

.RS
.TP
\fB<oid>:<majorVersion>[:<minorVersion>]\fR
Specify a certificate template by OID and major version, optionally also specifying minor version.
.TP
\fB<name>\fR
Specify a certificate template by name.  The name cannot contain any \fI:\fR characters and cannot be an OID (otherwise the OID-based template specifier syntax takes precedence).
.TP
\fBdefault\fR
If no template is specified, the template name "SubCA" is used.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-\-external\-cert\-file\fR=\fIFILE\fR
File containing the IPA CA certificate and the external CA certificate chain. The file is accepted in PEM and DER certificate and PKCS#7 certificate chain formats. This option may be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-\-ca\-subject\fR=\fISUBJECT\fR
The CA certificate subject DN (default CN=Certificate Authority,O=REALM.NAME).  RDNs are in LDAP order (most specific RDN first).
.TP
\fB\-\-subject\-base\fR=\fISUBJECT\fR
The subject base for certificates issued by IPA (default O=REALM.NAME).  RDNs are in LDAP order (most specific RDN first).
.TP
\fB\-\-pki\-config\-override\fR=\fIFILE\fR
File containing overrides for CA installation.
.TP
\fB\-\-ca\-signing\-algorithm\fR=\fIALGORITHM\fR
Signing algorithm of the IPA CA certificate. Possible values are SHA1withRSA, SHA256withRSA, SHA512withRSA. Default value is SHA256withRSA. Use this option with --external-ca if the external CA does not support the default signing algorithm.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-host\-dns\fR
Do not use DNS for hostname lookup during installation
.TP
\fB\-\-skip\-conncheck\fR
Skip connection check to remote master
.TP
\fB\-\-skip\-schema\-check\fR
Skip check for updated CA DS schema on the remote master
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-unattended\fR
An unattended installation that will never prompt for user input
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred
