.\" A man page for ipa-nis-manage
.\" Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-nis-manage" "1" "April 25 2016" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-nis\-manage \- Enables or disables the NIS listener plugin
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-nis\-manage [options] <enable|disable|status>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Run the command with the \fBenable\fR option to enable the NIS plugin.

Run the command with the \fBdisable\fR option to disable the NIS plugin.

Run the command with the \fBstatus\fR option to read status of the NIS plugin. Return code 0 indicates enabled plugin, return code 4 indicates disabled plugin.

In all cases the user will be prompted to provide the Directory Manager's password unless option \fB\-y\fR is used.

Directory Server will need to be restarted after the NIS listener plugin has been enabled.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug logging when more verbose output is needed
.TP
\fB\-y\fR \fIfile\fR
File containing the Directory Manager password
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

1 if an error occurred

2 if the plugin is already in the required status (enabled or disabled)

3 if RPC services cannot be enabled.

4 if status command detected plugin in disabled state.
