.\" A man page for ipactl
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" 
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\" 
.TH "ipactl" "8" "Mar 14 2008" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipactl \- IPA Server Control Interface
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipactl \fIcommand\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A tool to help an administer control an IPA environment.

IPA glues several discrete services together to work in concert and the order that these services are started and stopped is important. ipactl ensures that they are started and stopped in the correct order.

IPA stores the available masters and the services configured on each one. The first thing ipactl does is start (if it is not already running) the IPA 389\-ds instance to query what services it controls. The hostname used in the query needs to match the hostname of the value stored in LDAP. This can be controlled with the host option in \fI/etc/ipa/default.conf\fR. This should be a fully\-qualified hostname.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
start
Start all of the services that make up IPA
.TP 
stop
Stop all of the services that make up IPA
.TP 
restart
Stop then start all of the services that make up IPA
