.\" A man page for ipa-deluser
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\" 
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\" 
.TH "ipa-deluser" "1" "Oct 10 2007" "freeipa" ""
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-deluser \- Delete or inactivate a user

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-deluser [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIuser\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Inactivates a user with login name \fIname\fR.

By default users are not completely removed. They are marked as inactive. Use the [\-d|\-\-delete] option to completely remove them.

Users are automatically removed from groups when they are deleted. The are not when inactivated.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delete
Completely remove the user from the database. The default is to mark the user inactive.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
