.\" A man page for ipa-addgroup
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 only
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\" 
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\" 
.TH "ipa-addgroup" "1" "Oct 10 2007" "freeipa" ""
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-addgroup \- Add a group

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-addgroup [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIgroup\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Adds a group with name \fIgroup\fR.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-description\fR=\fIdescription\fR
Set the description of the group to \fIdescription\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-gid\fR=\fIgid\fR
Set the gid for this group to \fIgid\fR.
If this option is not present, one is created automatically
by \fBfreeIPA\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-addattr\fR \fIattr=value\fR
Adds \fIvalue\fR to attribute \fIattr\fR. Attributes set this way are done after other options. If an attribute is listed more than once or already exists in the entry, it is considered a multi\-valued attribute and a list of the values is created.
.TP
\fB\-\-setattr\fR \fIattr=value\fR
Set attribute \fIattr\fR to \fIvalue\fR. Any existing value will be replaced with \fIvalue\fR.
.PP 
The group name and description are mandatory fields. If either of these are not included on the command line you will be asked interactively.

If no options are passed then all questions are asked.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
