.\" A man page for ipa-pwpolicy
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 only
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\" 
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\" 
.TH "ipa-pwpolicy" "1" "Feb 25 2008" "freeipa" ""
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-pwpolicy \- Display or modify the IPA password policy

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-pwpolicy
[\-\-maxlife days] [\-\-minlife hours] [\-\-history number] [\-\-minclasses number] [\-\-minlength number]
.TP 
ipa\-pwpolicy \-\-show
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Displays or updates the IPA password policy.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-\-maxlife\fR=\fIdays\fR
Set the maximum Password Lifetime in days
.TP 
\fB\-\-minlife\fR=\fIhours\fR
Set the minimum Password Lifetime in hours
.TP 
\fB\-\-history\fR=\fIinteger\fR
The number of passwords stored in the password history. A value of 0 means do not store a password history.
.TP 
\fB\-\-minclasses\fR=\fIinteger\fR
Set the minimum number of character classes required in a password. The classes are alpha, numeric, mixed\-case and special characters.
.TP 
\fB\-\-minlength\fR=\fIinteger\fR
Set the minimum password length.
.TP 
\fB\-\-show\fR
Display the current password policy.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
