.\" A man page for ipa-adduser
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 only
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\" 
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\" 
.TH "ipa-adduser" "1" "Oct 10 2007" "freeipa" ""
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-adduser \- Add a user

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-adduser [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIuser\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Adds a user with username \fIuser\fR.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-gecos\fR=\fIgecos\fR
Set the \f[SM]GECOS\fR field to \fIgecos\fR.
The \f[SM]GECOS\fR field is traditionally used to store user's real name and other information.
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-directory\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Set user's home directory to \fIdirectory\fR.
If this option is not present, a default specified by the
.B freeIPA configuration is used.
.TP 
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-firstname\fR=\fIgivenName\fR
Set user's first name to \fIgivenName\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-lastname\fR=\fIfamilyName\fR
Set user's last name to \fIfamilyName\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fIpassword\fR
Set user's password to \fIpassword\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-P\fR
Prompt for the user's password.
.TP 
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-shell\fR=\fIshell\fR
Set the user's login shell to \fIshell\fR.
If this option is not present, a default specified by the
.B freeIPA configuration is used.
.TP 
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-groups\fR=\fIgroups\fR
Add this user to one or more groups in \fIgroups\fR.
\fIgroups\fR is a comma\-separated list of groups.
Each \fIgroup\fR must already exist.
.TP 
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-krb\-principal\fR=\fIprincipal\fR
Set this user's principal to \fIprincipal\fR.
By default the principal is set to \fBuser\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-mailAddress\fR=\fImail\fR
Set this user's e\-mail address to \fImail\fR.
.TP 
\fB\-\-addattr\fR \fIattr=value\fR
Adds \fIvalue\fR to attribute \fIattr\fR. Attributes set this way are done after other options. If an attribute is listed more than once or already exists in the entry, it is considered a multi\-valued attribute and a list of the values is created.
.TP 
\fB\-\-setattr\fR \fIattr=value\fR
Set attribute \fIattr\fR to \fIvalue\fR. Any existing value will be replaced with \fIvalue\fR.
.PP 
The mandatory fields are: user, first name and last name. If any of these are not included on the command line you will be asked interactively.

The password is asked interactively if not passed on the command\-line but it isn't mandatory. Leaving both values blank will leave the password unset on the account.

If no options are passed then all questions are asked.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
