.\" A man page for ipa-addservice
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 only
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\" 
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\" 
.TH "ipa-addservice" "1" "Jan 4 2008" "freeipa" ""
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-addservice \- Add a service principal

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-addservice [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIprincipal\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Adds a service principal \fIprincipal\fR.

The principal takes the form of:

service/fully\-qualified\-hostname

The list of possible services is too extensive to list here but a short list is:

cifs
dhcp
dns
host
HTTP
ldap
nfs
rpc
snmp

The IPA server automatically appends the Kerberos realm for which it is configured. You cannot specify a different realm.

The hostname must resolve to a DNS A record in order to ensure that it will work with Kerberos. Use the \-\-force flag to force the creation of a principal.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-\-force\fR
Force the creation of the given principal name.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
ipa\-addservice HTTP/www.example.com
Add a service principal for a web server
.TP 
ipa\-addservice host/ipa.example.com
Add a service principal for the host (for ssh, for example)
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
