.\" A man page for ipa-defaultoptions
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 only
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-defaultoptions" "1" "Jul 14 2008" "freeipa" ""
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-defaultoptions \- Display or modify the IPA Search and User Policies
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-defaultoptions [\-\-maxusername number] [\-\-homedir directory] [\-\-defaultshell shell] [\-\-defaultgroup group] [\-\-emaildomain domain] [\-\-searchtimelimit number] [\-\-searchrecordslimit number] [\-\-usersearch fields] [\-\-groupsearch fields] [\-v|\-\-verbose]
ipa\-defaultoptions \-\-show
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Displays or updates the IPA Search and User Policy.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-maxusername\fR=\fIMAXUSERNAME\fR
Max. Length of a username
.TP
\fB\-\-homedir\fR=\fIHOMEDIR\fR
Default location of home directories
.TP
\fB\-\-defaultshell\fR=\fIDEFAULTSHELL\fR
Default shell for new users
.TP
\fB\-\-defaultgroup\fR=\fIDEFAULTGROUP\fR
Default group for new users
.TP
\fB\-\-emaildomain\fR=\fIEMAILDOMAIN\fR
Default e\-mail domain
.TP
\fB\-\-searchtimelimit\fR=\fISEARCHTIMELIMIT\fR
Max. amount of time (sec.) for a search (-1 for unlimited)
.TP
\fB\-\-searchrecordslimit\fR=\fISEARCHRECORDSLIMIT\fR
Max. number of records to search (-1 for unlimited)
.TP
\fB\-\-usersearch\fR=\fIUSERSEARCH\fR
A comma\-separated list of fields to search when
searching for users
.TP
\fB\-\-groupsearch\fR=\fIGROUPSEARCH\fR
A comma\-separated list of fields to search when
searching for groups
.TP
\fB\-\-show\fR
Display the current password policy.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Display the XML\-RPC request and response for more verbose debugging output
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
