.\" A man page for ipa-getkeytab
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 only
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\" 
.\" Author: Karl MacMillan <kmacmill@redhat.com>
.\" 
.TH "ipa-getkeytab" "1" "Oct 10 2007" "freeipa" ""
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-getkeytab \- Get a keytab for a kerberos principal
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-getkeytab [\fI-a\fR] \fIprincipal-name\fR \fIfile-name\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Retrieves a kerberos \fIkeytab\fR and optionally adds a
service \fIprincipal\fR.

Kerberos keytabs are used for services (like sshd) to
perform kerberos authentication. A keytab is a file
with one or more secrets (or keys) for a kerberos
principal.

A kerberos service principal is a kerberos identity
that can be used for authentication. Service principals
contain the name of the service, the hostname of the
server, and the realm name. For example, the following
is an example principal for an ldap server:

   ldap/foo.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM

When using ipa-getkeytab the realm name is already
provided, so the principal name is just the service
name and hostname (ldap/foo.example.com from the 
example above).

\fBWARNING:\fR retrieving the keytab resets the secret
rendering all other keytabs for that principal invalid.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-a\fR
Add the service principal in addition to getting the keytab

.SH "EXAMPLES"

Add and retrieve a keytab for the ldap service principal on
the host foo.example.com and save it in the file ldap.keytab.

   # ipa-getkeytab -a ldap/foo.example.com ldap.keytab

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.
