.\" A man page for ipa-rmkeytab
.\" Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Rob Crittenden <rcritten@redhat.com>
.\"
.\"
.TH "ipa-rmkeytab" "1" "Oct 30 2009" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-rmkeytab \- Remove a kerberos principal from a keytab
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-rmkeytab [ \fB\-p\fR principal\-name ] [ \fB\-k\fR keytab\-file ] [ \fB\-r\fR realm ] [ \fB\-d\fR ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Removes a kerberos principal from a \fIkeytab\fR.

Kerberos keytabs are used for services (like sshd) to
perform kerberos authentication. A keytab is a file
with one or more secrets (or keys) for a kerberos
principal.

A kerberos service principal is a kerberos identity
that can be used for authentication. Service principals
contain the name of the service, the hostname of the
server, and the realm name.

ipa\-rmkeytab provides two ways to remove principals.
A specific principal can be removed or all
principals for a given realm can be removed.

All encryption types and versions of a principal are removed.

The realm may be included when removing a specific principal but
it is not required.

\fBNOTE:\fR removing a principal from the keytab does not affect
the Kerberos principal stored in the IPA server. It merely removes
the entry from the local keytab.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-p principal\-name\fR
The non\-realm part of the full principal name.
.TP
\fB\-k keytab\-file\fR
The keytab file to remove the principal(s) from.
.TP
\fB\-r realm\fR
A realm to remove all principals for.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Debug mode. Additional information is displayed.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Remove the NFS service principal on the host foo.example.com from /tmp/nfs.keytab.

   # ipa\-rmkeytab \-p nfs/foo.example.com \-k /tmp/nfs.keytab

Remove the ldap service principal on the host foo.example.com from /etc/krb5.keytab.

   # ipa\-rmkeytab \-p ldap/foo.example.com \-k /etc/krb5.keytab

Remove all principals for the realm EXAMPLE.COM.

  # ipa\-rmkeytab \-r EXAMPLE.COM \-k /etc/krb5.keytab
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status is 0 on success, nonzero on error.

1 Kerberos initialization failed

2 Memory allocation error

3 Unable to open keytab

4 Unable to parse the principal name

5 Principal name or realm not found in keytab

6 Unable to remove principal from keytab
