.\" A man page for ipa-run-tests
.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Petr Viktorin <pviktori@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-run-tests" "1" "Aug 29 2013" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-run\-tests \- Run the FreeIPA test suite
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-run\-tests [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
ipa\-run\-tests is a wrapper around nosetests that run the FreeIPA test suite.
It is intended to be used for developer testing and in continuous
integration systems.

It loads IPA-internal Nose plugins ordered-tests and beakerlib.
The ordered-tests plugin is enabled automatically.

The FreeIPA test suite installed system\-wide is selected via Nose's \-\-where
option.
It is possible to select a subset of the entire test suite by specifying
a test file relative to the ipatests package, for example:

    ipa-run-tests test_integration/test_simple_replication.py

.SH "OPTIONS"
All command-line options are passed to the underlying Nose runner.
See nosetests(1) for a complete list.

The internal IPA plugins add an extra option:

.TP
\fB\-\-with-beakerlib\fR
Enable BeakerLib integration.
Test phases, failures and passes, and log messages are reported using
beakerlib(1) commands.
This option requires the beakerlib.sh script to be sourced.

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

nonzero if any error or failure occurred

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Please see ipa-test-config(1) for a description of configuration environment
variables.

.SH "REFERENCES"
A full description of the FreeIPA integration testing framework is available at
http://www.freeipa.org/page/V3/Integration_testing
