.\" A man page for ipa-test-task
.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Author: Petr Viktorin <pviktori@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH "ipa-test-task" "1" "Aug 29 2013" "FreeIPA" "FreeIPA Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipa\-test\-task \- Run a task for FreeIPA testing
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipa\-test\-task \-h
.br
ipa\-test\-task [global-options] TASK [task-options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Run a task using FreeIPA integration testing configuration.
This tool is meant for use in scripts that test FreeIPA functionality.
See ipa-test-config(1) for FreeIPA integration test configuration.

This tool should never be run in a production environment.
It is not designed with security in mind.

.SH "GLOBAL OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print out the command's usage and exit.
If given after a subcommand, prints that subcommand's usage message.

.TP
\fB\-\-with\-beakerlib\fR
Enable BeakerLib integration.
Log messages are reported via beakerlib(1) commands.
This option requires an active BeakerLib phase.

.SH "SUBCOMMANDS"
.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task install\-master [\-\-host HOST]\fR
Install an initial IPA server on the given host, or on the configured master
if \-\-host is not given.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task install\-replica [\-\-master MASTER] HOST\fR
Install an IPA replica on the given host.
It is initialized from the IPA server given by \-\-master, or from the
configured master if \-\-master is not given.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task install\-client [\-\-master MASTER] HOST\fR
Install an IPA client on the given host.
It is initialized from the IPA server given by \-\-master, or from the
configured master if \-\-master is not given.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task connect\-replica HOST1 HOST2\fR
Create a replication agreement between two given replicas.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task disconnect\-replica HOST1 HOST2\fR
Remove a replication agreement between two given replicas.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task uninstall\-server [HOST [HOST ...]]\fR
Uninstall an IPA server (master or replica) on the given host(s), and
restore the host(s) to the state before installation.
If no host is given, uninstalls all configured masters and replicas.
If no server is installed on a host, does nothing on that host.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task uninstall\-client [HOST [HOST ...]]\fR
Uninstall an IPA client on the given host(s), and restore the host(s) to the
state before installation.
If no host is given, uninstalls all configured clients.
If no client is installed on a host, does nothing on that host.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task uninstall\-all\fR
Uninstall IPA from all configured master, replica and client hosts.
Equivalent to running uninstall\-server and uninstall\-client without
arguments.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task cleanup [HOST [HOST ...]]\fR
Restore system configuration (such as /etc/resolv.conf) on the given hosts
to a state before installation.
If no hosts are given, clean up all configured hosts.
This functionality is included in the uninstall\-* subcommands and is rarely
useful alone.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task install-topo [\-\-skip\-master] [\-\-skip\-clients] [\-\-master M] [\-\-replicas R1 [R2...]] [\-\-clients C1 [C2 ...]] TOPO\fR
Install a number of FreeIPA servers and clients in the given topology.
Use the list\-topos subcommand for a list of available topologies.

Unless \-\-skip\-master is given, an initial server is installed on the host
given by \-\-master, or on the configured master if \-\-master is missing.

Replicas are installed according to the selected topology on hosts given by
\-\-replicas, or on all configured replicas if that option is not given.

Unless \-\-skip\-clients is given, clients are installed on hosts given by
\-\-clients, or on all configured clients if \-\-clients is not given.
Servers used for client installation are selected in a round-robin fashion.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task list-topos\fR
List the topologies available for the install-topo subcommand.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task install\-adtrust HOST\fR
Run ipa-adtrust-install on the IPA and generate SIDs for the entries in IPA.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task configure\-dns\-for\-trust HOST AD\fR
Based on the relationship of the domains configures the IPA DNS for trust.
AD DNS needs to be setup manually.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task establish\-trust\-with\-ad HOST AD\fR
Establishes trust with Active Directory. Trust type is detected depending on
the presence of SfU (Services for Unix) support on the AD.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task remove\-trust\-with\-ad HOST AD\fR
Removes trust with Active Directory. Also removes the associated ID range.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task configure\-auth\-to\-local\-rule HOST AD\fR
Configures auth_to_local rule in /etc/krb5.conf

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task clear\-sssd\-cache HOST\fR
Clears SSSD cache by removing the cache files. Restarts SSSD.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task setup\-sssd\-debugging HOST\fR
Sets up SSSD debugging. Restarts SSSD.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task sync\-time HOST SERVER\fR
Syncs the time with the remote server. Please note that this function leaves
chronyd stopped.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task add\-a\-records\-in\-master\-domain MASTER\fR
Adds A records to the IPA master for all the hosts in the master domain.

.TP
\fBipa\-test\-task add\-a\-record MASTER HOST\fR
Adds an A record for the host to the IPA master.

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the command was successful

nonzero if an error occurred

.SH "REFERENCES"
A full description of the FreeIPA integration testing framework is available at
http://www.freeipa.org/page/V3/Integration_testing
